---
title: "Readrr: Reading tracking and recommending app"
layout: post
post-image: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1505664194779-8beaceb93744?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&ixid=MnwxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1470&q=80"
description: Group project, build a recommender system to recommend similar books and keep track of user's libraries.
categories: 
- machine learning
- recommender system
tags:
- recommender
- tracking
- machine learning
author:
  display_name: Claudia Chajon
  first_name: Claudia
  last_name: Chajon
permalink: "/2020/02/02/readrr/"
---
<h3>Keep track of your reading</h3>

[See the work](https://github.com/Lambda-School-Labs/betterreads-ds)

<p>A project developed as a platform to keep track of books that are being read or have been read previously. The aim of this project is to provide a clean, uncluttered user interface that allows a user to track books, similar to the GoodReads user interface.</p>
<p>This allowed users to rate books they had read and allow other users to view those ratings. A user may rate the books on their virtual shelf and allow for other users to view their ratings. This was a greenfield project and the data science team was tasked with setting the parameters for the project as it applies to data science.</p>
<p>A future goal of the project was to use NLP and predictive modeling with the reviews and book attributes (genre, topics, subject) to predict books that a user would enjoy based on their past read books.</p>

<p>As this was a greenfield project, the first task was to develop a dataset which could be used as a sample for a recommendation engine and use in NLP. For this reason, my group was tasked with developing a database and dataset to hold the book data.</p>
<p>I was responsible for the implementation of a k-nearest neighbors model on a sample database of 10K books. Recommendations were based on user ratings to find and suggest books to the user that would fit their profile.</p>
<p>This was part of a 2 month team project in which I worked with a multidisciplinary team made up of 6 Web Developers, 1 UX Designer and 3 fellow Data Scientists.</p>


